---
title: "GeoTP: Latency-aware Geo-Distributed Transaction Processing in Database Middlewares"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2024-11-26-geotp
#excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 2. The number 3 is left for future work.'
date: 2024-11-26
venue: 'IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE 2025)'
slidesurl: 'http://QiYuZhuang.github.io/files/slides/geotp.pdf'
paperurl: 'http://QiYuZhuang.github.io/files/geotp.pdf'
---

A latency-aware transaction processing algorithm optimized for geo-distributed environments with highly variable network latencies.

Abstract
=====
The widespread adoption of database middleware for supporting distributed transaction processing is prevalent in numerous applications, with heterogeneous data sources deployed across national and international boundaries. However, transaction processing performance significantly drops due to the high network latency between the middleware and data sources and the long lock contention span, where transactions may be blocked while waiting for the locks held by concurrent transactions. In this paper, we propose GeoTP, a latency-aware geo-distributed transaction processing approach in database middleware. GeoTP incorporates three key techniques to enhance performance in geo-distributed scenarios. First, we propose a decentralized prepare mechanism to reduce network round-trips for distributed transactions. Second, we design a latency-aware scheduler to minimize the lock contention span by strategically delaying the lock acquisition. Third, heuristic optimizations are proposed for the scheduler to reduce the lock contention span further. We implemented GeoTP on Apache Shardingsphere, a state-of-the-art middleware, and extended it into Apache ScalarDB. Experimental results on YCSB and TPC-C demonstrate that GeoTP achieves up to 17.7x performance improvement.

Citation
=====
